email-client-backend/README.md, before:

# Email Client Backend

## Overview
This application allows users to register and log in using their Outlook accounts, sync their email data with an Elasticsearch database, and monitor real-time changes in their inbox using webhooks. It utilizes OAuth2 for authentication, the Microsoft Graph API for accessing email data, and Elasticsearch for storing and indexing emails.


## Features

- OAuth authentication with Outlook
- Syncing email data to Elasticsearch
- Real-time updates using webhooks
- RESTful API endpoints for user registration and email retrieval

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sundas-arooj/email-client-core.git

2. Navigate to the frontend directory:
    ```bash
    cd email-client-backend

3. Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install

4. Configure environment variables:

Create and configure the .env file in root directory

5. Run the app
    ```bash
    npm start
    
Server is running on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Environment Variables
Ensure you have a `.env` file with the following variables:
- `PORT`: Port on which the server runs.
- `OUTLOOK_CLIENT_ID`: Client ID from your Outlook app registration.
- `OUTLOOK_CLIENT_SECRET`: Client secret from your Outlook app registration.
- `APP_URL`: Base URL of your application (e.g., http://localhost:3000).
- `FRONTEND_URL`: Base URL of your frontend application (e.g., http://localhost:3001).
- `ELASTICSEARCH_URL`: Base URL of elasticsearch (e.g., http://localhost:9200).

## Technologies Used
- **Node.js**: Server-side JavaScript runtime.
- **Express**: Web framework for Node.js.
- **MSAL (Microsoft Authentication Library)**: Handles OAuth2 authentication.
- **Microsoft Graph Client**: Accesses Microsoft Graph API.
- **Elasticsearch**: Search and analytics engine.
- **Axios**: HTTP client for making API requests.
- **bcrypt**: Library for hashing passwords.
- **dotenv**: Loads environment variables from a .env file.

## Endpoints
1. **User Registration**
   - **Endpoint**: `/user/register`
   - **Method**: POST
   - **Description**: Registers a new user and provides an OAuth URL for Outlook login.
   - **Request Body**: `{ "email": "user@example.com", "password": "password" }`
   - **Response**: `{ "authUrl": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/...", "user": { id: 1, email: "email@outlook.com", ...} }`

2. **OAuth Authentication**
   - **Endpoint**: `/auth/outlook`
   - **Method**: GET
   - **Description**: Initiates the OAuth flow by redirecting the user to Outlook login.

3. **OAuth Callback**
   - **Endpoint**: `/auth/outlook/callback`
   - **Method**: GET
   - **Description**: Handles the callback from Outlook after user authentication. Saves user details, creates a subscription for notifications, and syncs email data.

4. **Webhook Notification**
   - **Endpoint**: `/webhook/outlook-notification`
   - **Method**: POST
   - **Description**: Receives notifications from Microsoft Graph about changes in the user's inbox. Processes the notifications to update email data in Elasticsearch.

5. **Get Emails Data by user email**
   - **Endpoint**: `/api/emails?email=email@outlook.com`
   - **Method**: GET
   - **Description**: Retrieve emailData for user with email
   - **Params**: `email` (Email)

6. **Get Email by ID**
   - **Endpoint**: `/user/:email`
   - **Method**: GET
   - **Description**: Retrieves user by its email from Elasticsearch.
   - **Params**: `email` (Email)

## Project Structure
1. **App file**
    - The file app.js is the starting point of the project

2. **Routes**
    - It in src/api/routes folder
    - All the endpoint routes defined in this folder in different files

3. **Controllers**
    - It in src/api/controller folder
    - All the functions called against routes are in these files
    - Each route file has its controller file

4. **Services**
    - It in src/services folder
    - Any logical changes or calling functions for db operations defined in these file
    - Each controller file has its service file

5. **Business Models**
    - It in src/core/business-models folder
    - All the DB related operations are defined in these files
    - We have separate file for each index

6. **Utils**
    - It in src/core/utils folder
    - All the general reusable functions are defined in util files

7. **Config**
    - It in /config folder
    - It contain passport file for configuration to authenticate the user

## Functions
1. **createUser**
   - **Description**: Creates a new user in Elasticsearch with a hashed password.
   - **Parameters**: `email` (string), `password` (string)

2. **updateUserTokens**
   - **Description**: Updates the user's access token in Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `email` (string), `accessToken` (string), `refreshToken` (string)

3. **fetchUserTokens**
   - **Description**: Retrieves the tokens for a user from Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `email` (string)

4. **getOutlookEmails**
   - **Description**: Get the latest emails from the user's inbox to Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `accessToken` (string), `email` (string)

5. **createSubscription**
   - **Description**: Creates a subscription with Microsoft Graph to receive notifications about changes in the user's inbox.
   - **Parameters**: `accessToken` (string)

6. **processNotification**
   - **Description**: Processes notifications from Microsoft Graph and updates email data in Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `notifications` (array)

7. **deleteEmail**
   - **Description**: Deletes an email from Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `emailId` (string)

8. **indexOrUpdateEmail**
   - **Description**: Indexes or updates an emailData in Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `emailData` (object), `email` (string)

9. **getEmailData**
   - **Description**: Retrieves email data from Microsoft Graph.
   - **Parameters**: `accessToken` (string), `emailId` (string)

10. **getEmailById**
    - **Description**: Retrieves an email from Elasticsearch by its ID.
    - **Parameters**: `emailId` (string)

Commit message:

feat: handle mailboxes/sub mailboxes with complete data and added cron job

email-client-backend/README.md, after:

# Email Client Backend

## Overview
This application allows users to register and log in using their Outlook accounts, sync their email data with an Elasticsearch database, and monitor real-time changes in their inbox using webhooks, along with webhook it frequently update emails data for all users using cron job. It utilizes OAuth2 for authentication, the Microsoft Graph API for accessing email data, and Elasticsearch for storing and indexing emails.


## Features

- OAuth authentication with Outlook
- Syncing email data to Elasticsearch
- Real-time updates using webhooks
- Cron job for frequent syncing of data
- RESTful API endpoints for user registration and email retrieval

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sundas-arooj/email-client-core.git

2. Navigate to the frontend directory:
    ```bash
    cd email-client-backend

3. Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install

4. Configure environment variables:

Create and configure the .env file in root directory

5. Run the app
    ```bash
    npm start
    
Server is running on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Environment Variables
Ensure you have a `.env` file with the following variables:
- `PORT`: Port on which the server runs.
- `OUTLOOK_CLIENT_ID`: Client ID from your Outlook app registration.
- `OUTLOOK_CLIENT_SECRET`: Client secret from your Outlook app registration.
- `APP_URL`: Base URL of your application (e.g., http://localhost:3000).
- `FRONTEND_URL`: Base URL of your frontend application (e.g., http://localhost:3001).
- `ELASTICSEARCH_URL`: Base URL of elasticsearch (e.g., http://localhost:9200).

## Technologies Used
- **Node.js**: Server-side JavaScript runtime.
- **Express**: Web framework for Node.js.
- **MSAL (Microsoft Authentication Library)**: Handles OAuth2 authentication.
- **Microsoft Graph Client**: Accesses Microsoft Graph API.
- **Elasticsearch**: Search and analytics engine.
- **Axios**: HTTP client for making API requests.
- **bcrypt**: Library for hashing passwords.
- **dotenv**: Loads environment variables from a .env file.

## Endpoints
1. **User Registration**
   - **Endpoint**: `/user/register`
   - **Method**: POST
   - **Description**: Registers a new user and provides an OAuth URL for Outlook login.
   - **Request Body**: `{ "email": "user@example.com", "password": "password" }`
   - **Response**: `{ "authUrl": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/...", "user": { id: 1, email: "email@outlook.com", ...} }`

2. **OAuth Authentication**
   - **Endpoint**: `/auth/outlook`
   - **Method**: GET
   - **Description**: Initiates the OAuth flow by redirecting the user to Outlook login.

3. **OAuth Callback**
   - **Endpoint**: `/auth/outlook/callback`
   - **Method**: GET
   - **Description**: Handles the callback from Outlook after user authentication. Saves user details, creates a subscription for notifications, and syncs email data.

4. **Webhook Notification**
   - **Endpoint**: `/webhook/outlook-notification`
   - **Method**: POST
   - **Description**: Receives notifications from Microsoft Graph about changes in the user's inbox. Processes the notifications to update email data in Elasticsearch.

5. **Get Emails Data by user email**
   - **Endpoint**: `/api/emails?email=email@outlook.com`
   - **Method**: GET
   - **Description**: Retrieve emailData for user with email
   - **Params**: `email` (Email)

6. **Get Email by ID**
   - **Endpoint**: `/user/:email`
   - **Method**: GET
   - **Description**: Retrieves user by its email from Elasticsearch.
   - **Params**: `email` (Email)

## Project Structure
1. **App file**
    - The file app.js is the starting point of the project

2. **Routes**
    - It in src/api/routes folder
    - All the endpoint routes defined in this folder in different files

3. **Controllers**
    - It in src/api/controller folder
    - All the functions called against routes are in these files
    - Each route file has its controller file

4. **Services**
    - It in src/services folder
    - Any logical changes or calling functions for db operations defined in these file
    - Each controller file has its service file

5. **Business Models**
    - It in src/core/business-models folder
    - All the DB related operations are defined in these files
    - We have separate file for each index

6. **Utils**
    - It in src/core/utils folder
    - All the general reusable functions are defined in util files

7. **Config**
    - It in /config folder
    - It contain passport file for configuration to authenticate the user

## Functions
1. **createUser**
   - **Description**: Creates a new user in Elasticsearch with a hashed password.
   - **Parameters**: `email` (string), `password` (string)

2. **updateUserTokens**
   - **Description**: Updates the user's access token in Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `email` (string), `accessToken` (string), `refreshToken` (string)

3. **fetchUserTokens**
   - **Description**: Retrieves the tokens for a user from Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `email` (string)

4. **fetchAllEmails**
   - **Description**: Get the latest emails from the user's mailboxes and store it to Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `accessToken` (string), `email` (string)

5. **createSubscription**
   - **Description**: Creates a subscription with Microsoft Graph to receive notifications about changes in the user's inbox.
   - **Parameters**: `accessToken` (string)

6. **processNotification**
   - **Description**: Processes notifications from Microsoft Graph and updates email data in Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `notifications` (array)

7. **deleteEmail**
   - **Description**: Deletes an email from Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `emailId` (string)

8. **indexOrUpdateEmail**
   - **Description**: Indexes or updates an emailData in Elasticsearch.
   - **Parameters**: `emailData` (object), `email` (string)

9. **getEmailData**
   - **Description**: Retrieves email data from Microsoft Graph.
   - **Parameters**: `accessToken` (string), `emailId` (string)

10. **getEmailById**
    - **Description**: Retrieves an email from Elasticsearch by its ID.
    - **Parameters**: `emailId` (string)
